---
layout: post
title:  "AGM 2012 Minutes"
date:   2013-02-21 20:00:00
excerpt: "Minutes of the Annual General Meeting (2012) of the Friends of Russia Dock Woodland held 21st February, 2013 at the YHA Salter Road."
image: "/images/blog/AGM_2012.jpg"
---


The meeting commenced @ 19.00

### Present

Steve Cornish, John Wills, Andrea Pita, Andy Chatterton, Jerry Hewitt, Gerry & Alison Sproston, Rebeka Clark, James Elliott, Alan & Anne Chadborn, Corinne Turner

### Apologies

Tom Godfrey, Ben Dewhurst, Lisa Rajan & Alan McDermott and his wife.

SC opened the meeting by reminding everyone that this was the AGM for 2012 which had been delayed for various reasons including personal bereavement. He said that 2013’s AGM would definitely be held in September and it was hope to fulfil past promises to hold a ½-way EGM circa June on the Green.

The minutes of the AGM for 2011 were read and approved. There were no matter arising.

### Election of Officers

All officers stood down but offered themselves for re-election. All were returned unanimously.

### Chairman’s Report

- SC said that the great success of the year had been the refurbished waterways system. There had been a £3k underspend on this and it had been agreed that this would be put towards the construction of a new bee observation hive/centre. This had been approved by the Council. It will be a purpose built structure by professional carpenters and will be sited in the Ecological Centre. A new hive will be created for it a new queen for the colony will be purchased from Denmark.
- He reported that the woodland had been given the Safer Parks Award again in 2012 as well as achieving Green Flag status for the 3rd year in succession.
- Large amounts of pedestrian & Cycle paths had been resurfaced with from east to west with new red flexible tarmac resulting in improved permeability.
- 12-15 new lighting columns had been installed with a 40% improvement in efficiency; their downlighting is more wild-life friendly.
- There is an issue now with the older and taller lights as tree and bush growth has interfered with their lighting efficiency. Pollarding of some surrounding willows was necessary for access to the above
- Broken paving has been mended.
- Jubilee in the Park had been well attended and those who came seemed to enjoy themselves. Andy Chatterton asked for photos to be supplied.
- The 4 tree pits near the St John’s Bridge had always been the target of vandalism. Trees form the Olympic Park have been planted ~ 2 cherry and 2 silver birch ~ and it is hoped they will take and not be targeted.
- The new development on Quebec Way Industrial Estate will have substantial green fingers into the woodland. A SUDS (Sustainable Urban Drainage System) has been agreed with the developer which will feed into the existing waterways.
- 80 tonnes of chalk have been added to the streams and ponds.
- The old bronze water compass from the Downtowns Health Centre site has been retained for relocation in the woodland. He suggested that it would be suitable for re-siting in Globe Pond where a submersible pump could be installed to make it work.

### Rebekah Clark’s report

- There has been a hedgehog survey done in the woodlands. 10 tiny tunnels were made with a plate and bait at the centre. Eight showed daily activity and the remaining ones showed activity on 3 days out of five. It was now hoped to further this with a small mammal survey. It was also hoped to start a Hedgehog Project involving local schools/children. People would be asked to ‘phone in with sightings etc.
- Much had been achieved by volunteer teams with undergrowth clearance, meadow clearance and bramble removal.
- Wild flowers had been sown.
- The meadows had been cleared at the south end. It would be good to have a 2m strip on either side of the paths and it is to be hoped that Quadron will help to maintain it.
- 80 tonnes of chalk had been used in the waterways and this was doing a great job in clearing the duckweed. Barley straw sausages had been effective in clearing the blanket weed.
- The bore hole with the new piping was working like a dream.
- The ecological park was being mapped for ash die-back and once completed the trees would be checked on a regular basis. JW asked if the disease was curable but was told that it was not.
- The woodlands had been contacted by Fiona Prior and we are now the owners of 3 marquees (3mx3m; 3mx4½m; 3mx6m). We also have some DJ equipment. Fiona wanted it to be used for the whole community. There is also some play equipment for use in the park ~ badminton, tennis etc.
- There has been some increase in ASB of late. She urged anyone to dial 101 and report anything they saw.
- She said that the Green Flag award had been a great team effort & the prospect for 2013 was more and better.
- She hopes to run more events such as moth tracking, flower & bird walks.
- She also suggested a family fun day with activities such as bat box building, lady bird houses. 
- She suggested that some days it would be a good idea to erect and man a marquee from say 12.00 ~ 16.00 with billboard displays to show a presence and to answer any questions from the woodland users.
- It was hoped to plant more wetland plants ~ marsh marigold and water forget-me-nots being examples.
- Anne Chadborn asked about the appearance of brassicas and stocks in the wild flower plantings. RC said that the seed purchased had been bee and butterfly friendly and perhaps their inclusion had been for quick results.
- SC mentioned the new Docklands Settlement, currently being built. It is hoped that this will attract ASB elements off the streets and out of the woodland.

### Andy Chatterton (Southwark Council) report

---

Friends of Russia Dock Woodlands AGM – 21/02/13

#### Lighting Improvement Project

- The Senior Lighting Engineer has confirmed the project has been complete for a couple of months now and has received a number of positive comments while carrying out post installation checks at night. It has achieved the energy saving as predicted in the lighting report. We have asked if the tall lamp posts are going to be refitted with new lamps and the photo electric cell glass domes cleaned soon and we are currently awaiting feedback.
- The Assistant Transport Planner has advised the Sustainable Travel and Road Safety team are currently carrying out a postal survey in Rotherhithe which aims to monitor the impact of their work in the area and of the lighting improvements on people's travel behaviour and opinions. The survey responses are due in by 25/02/13 and they should have some results to report after that.
 
The results will be publicised in next year’s annual report on the Transport Plan which can be found on their website. The ATP will send the link to where it will go when it goes up (around October 2013)?

#### Connect 2 Cycle Project

- A number of pathways have been resurfaced as part of the project and the damaged grass areas will be fully reinstated as soon as the weather conditions improve.
- Directional signage will need to be replaced in a couple of locations on the existing lamp columns. We are awaiting feedback as to when this will happen.
- We were recently advised of the following works:- Kissing Gate under Redriff Road bridge – Widening the passing area to 1.5m / RDW junction with Lady Dock Path Kissing Gate - Widening the passing area to 1.5m / Waterman’s Walk (rear of Redriff School) – Providing a Kissing Gate formation at the existing gate closure. It has been confirmed that a new panel is being fabricated to make a chicane and it will be fitted on Friday.

#### Trees

- The Tree Section have committed to undertaking a woodland management plan for Russia Dock Woodland next financial year and they will shortly be obtaining quotes for consultants to undertake this work. 

#### Ecological Survey

- The Ecology Officer has confirmed that we will commissioning a borough survey for May/June.

#### Quadron Services Limited

- QSL are performing well with a borough wide score of 94% and a local score of 96% and Parks are currently considering procurement options, as the contract period is due to expire in March 2014.  

#### Green Flag

Starting in 2013 judging will alternate yearly between a mystery visit (as current process for scores over 70%) and an announced visit.

---

He said that the method of awarding Green Flag status was changing. Judgement would now be on a bi-annual basis. Sites which had gained the award for several years would now be visited by mystery visitors. Any concerns would be raised for rectifying and then the park would be visited the next year for a full judgement.

SC asked about Southwark’s proposed protocol for groups such as the FRDW & Friends of Southwark Park etc

Andrea Pita read out the new guidelines:

---

“Friends of Parks Protocol

We hope that this will be a useful semi formal document which will help provide clarity about who does what and what we can expect from each other (and planning who have contributed to the protocol). Has been developed through workshops at a Friends’ Conference last year, draft was circulated for comment, comments were incorporated and next draft was circulated for comment - more comments received and incorporated and new draft will be sent for comment/agreement soon.

Objectives of the Protocol

1. To establish roles and responsibilities to help facilitate constructive and effective working relationships
2. To facilitate cooperation on issues relating to the development and management of parks and open spaces (including cemeteries) in the borough
3. To provide interactive means of communication between the council and the Friends

How it links with wider Council objectives

Following engagement with local people through the council’s budget process, the council plan identified the following principles that underpin its Fairer Future for all vision and which guide the objectives of this protocol.

They are:

- Being open, honest and accountable
- Spending money as if it were coming from our own pocket
- Making Southwark a place to be proud of

Process: 2nd draft to be circulated soon for comment and then hopefully adoption.”

---

This would clarify what the council expected to do and what it expected Friends of Parks to do.

SC reported that the new FRDW website was almost complete and would be up and running shortly. JW said it was brighter and more user-friendly and visitors would be able to follow the woodland on Twitter. The website would be linked to RWARG (RDW Area Residents Group) which aims to inform other organisations such as Surrey Docks Farm, Lavender Pond etc re activities or developments that may affect the woodland.

### Treasurer’s Report

The report showed a current balance of £1,238.40

Much of the income for the financial year had been spent on Meditation in the Park 2011.

### Planning Applications & Developments

QWIE development was going ahead & will probably start in September.

Work on the Downtown health centre site had begun. Russia Dock Woodland Area Residents Group(RDWARG) had approached Barratts with the idea of a natural wall between the site and the woodland, as agreed in the planning application for the Quebec Way Indsutrial Estate development on the SW boundary to RDW.

At the Monday’s CWF meeting Sellars (The Shard Builders) had unveiled plans for the Decathlon site. Of over 1,000 flats up to 40 storeys in height.

King’s College were also hoping to develop the Daily Mail printing plant site. This could bring in much needed student volunteers for the woodland and Surrey Docks Farm.

Over £10 million of Section 106 money was likely to be made available for local improvements from just the Sellars’ development alone. SC recommended that the Ecological Park and SDF apply for funding. Gerry Hewitt said that other groups were already applying.

Looking ahead to 2013

SC said that corporate volunteers were an essential part of maintaining the woodland as woodland and not a formal park.

Alan Chadborn asked if there was a plan to replace some of the older trees. RC said yes and that these would be hornbeams, black poplar & oak. She suggested approaching “Trees for All”. Adjacent to Redriff School there is a new laid hedge. The Headmaster wants the school to be actually involved and the new hedge will be an actual link into the woodland ~ edge habitat.

### Any other business

Alan C asked about a burnt-out patch on the green ~ would it be reseeded? Andy Chatterton said it would be looked at.

Alison Sprotson thanked Rebekah for the new steps which had recently been put into a slippery bank. She asked if she could plant bluebells behind her garden where it met the woodland. RK said that this was OK as long as she was informed on what was being put in so that she could alert Quadron etc. She would provide bulb sources.

Alison also expressed concern about the large trees that were now cutting out light from houses. RC said that these were willows and they were on schedule for pruning and trimming.

The meeting ended at 20.15.

John Wills,

Secretary, FRDW
