---
layout: post
title:  "AGM 2022 Minutes"
date:   2023-12-06 18:40:00
excerpt: "Minutes of the Annual General Meeting of the Friends of Russia Dock Woodland held on the 26th May 2022 at Surrey Docks Health Centre."
image: "/images/blog/AGM_2021.jpg"
---

## Friends of Russia Dock Woodland AGM 2022

- Held 6th December 2023, 19:40 at Surry Docks Health Centre
- Apologies from: Nicola C, Andrew Doyle, Patrick Kingwell, Rebeka Clark, John Simms
- Attendees: Benedict Ernst, Emma Lee, John and Janet Cadera, Rob Thomas, Anne Chadbourne, Allan Chadbourne, Stan Joules, Cllr Adam Hood, Anne J Beverley, Johnie ?Beverly?, Clare Street, Dom Leary, Simone Jabbour, John Wills, John T, Steve Cornish

## Approval of previous year’s minutes and matters arising

JW: Uber boats washing away green banks, trying to reduce speed from 40 knots to 20 knots – ongoing.

John T: Plaque/information board to recognise creation of RDW. To give a record to people/organisations of who created the place. Please can we get action on this? The concept of the park and its creation was very original. I’m happy to pursue and research. 

SC: LDDC in early 70’s took over the docks, Rebeka Clark will have a better idea. Maybe a small neighbourhood grant to fund it?

## Chairs report

SC: Green connections. Increase in population 50-60%. Russia Dock Woodland trees undergoing rehab.

Election of officers:

Alan Chadbourne stood committee down. 

Nominations of Chair:

In favour of Steve Cornish as Chair: All

In favour of John Wills as Vice and Treasurer: All

In favour of Clare Street as Secretary: All

Treasurer’s report:

JW: No money spent last year. Money out today £20 to cover cost of room. Approval by Alan C and John C

Any questions? 

How was the money in account raised? JW: Through grants and fundraising.

General items of debate:

## RDW and TCV

Rob: With TCV over a year as project officer for TCV. Bringing in teams to work in RDW as part of long term management. Southwark management plan as a base/frame work for all our work in RDW. Community engagement. Continuation of Laurie Steins idea of managing RDW as a working woodland. Coppicing rotations, habitat creation, scrub habitat. Replenishing trees felled with native species. Felling non native ornamental trees. Planting crab apple, wild pear and fruiting trees.  Hedge laying and planting hedgerows. Record volunteer numbers. 17,000 this year. 40 just in December. Clifford Davey recorded a rare fungi only noted four times in the uk and never recorded before within the M25.

K1 corner/ Russia Dock walk – children’s play features and establishing a new coppice coupe. Trying to establish a new connection with people moving into K1, so they can see things are happening.

## TCV tree giveaway

Green connections: After small steps so far we are now seeing dividends. British Land are reaching out. Rebeka Clark being interviewed tomorrow regarding environment and conservation.

Blocking off alleyways K1 Quebec Quarter with natural barriers (dead hedges/laid hedges) as we don’t want permeability but dedicated routes to protect habitats.

SC: Communicating with public via signage

Rob: RDW volunteer day every 4th Saturday of the month started in September. Great take up by locals. Sometimes 2 Saturdays a month, average age 26+ its spread well by word of mouth.

SC: What would it be like without volunteers and corporate teams?

Rob: Over 40 years council park management ideas have changed and updated moving away from ornamentals to conservation based ideas – volunteers are the future of the conservation sector. Learning - connection of local people with conservation experts has had a massive benefit.

John T: Any difficulty with council?

Rob: We have quarterly meetings with Southwark Council to walk and discuss. We don’t manage RDW Southwark Council still manage it but we can put forward ideas to them.

Emma Lee: Grass is getting long on hill I understand why it is left but social media has complaints.

Stan: How to communicate more information.

John C: It’s the best meadow for butterflies on transect.

## Bridges

22 years FORDW amicable with council.

Increase in complaints this year has been unusual. Three bridges have been done with no consultation in bridge design. Redriff Bridge taken 3.5 years but the culvert is not holding water still, people are getting frustrated.

SC: Kevin B blacksmith at farm has the bridge sculpture of a Tug boat 2/3rds completed. Last bridge Peter Hills the temporary bridge is still up.

Stan: Anyone with complaints s.parks.gov.uk. Redriff Bridge frustrating for officers involved. Structures team in charge of bridge they are aware. Conway’s tried to rectify once but it was unsuccessful. Peters Hill bridge, it’s slow, apologies but I’m confident it will be done soon. 

## Fountain

SC: Power box by Redriff School. Thanks to councillors to put it forward for funding>

AC: Notices on gates re-fountain so people can give feedback.

CClr AH: The fountain could be put in place without power, it would look all right.

## Lighting

Lighting problems now solved

Stan: Big lighting masts come down in February.

??: Subsidence on Watermans Walk. Lots of granite blocks are moving.

JC: It’s bad by pond Bea

Stan: It’s not unnoticed but unaware of any plans yet, something needs to be done.

SC: Opposite Pearsons Park is fenced off.

Stan: It’s not going to be flats but the cost for making safe and extending outdoor gym is being looked at.  

SC: Quebec Way: Old print works new park to be 3 ½ acres.

Anti-motor bike chicanes in woodland will remain open at all times now. (Stan confirms)

## Encroachment 

RDW Encroachment by 7 houses 

Stan Nicola Cheetham and housing team on this, there continues to be incursions extended garden fences and fly tipping.

John T: Where?

SC: Buckters Rents, Byfield Place, Mahogany Pond etc

Park Employees: Only 2 for 40 acres not sustainable and not adequate.

Stan: Government funding cuts it’s a problem throughout the borough. There is TCV which is a massive resource. Southwark council is well placed compared to 
other boroughs. People need to write to their MPs and council.

## Tree pits

Dog ring barked one tree by downtown entrance, it’s died. This entrance needs three trees, the Green has ten trees it didn’t really need.

Stan: I will put at tree team on it and see what they say.

## Any Other Business

JC: Uber flushing out green banks. Uber to sponsor a reed bed? 

Coppicing and fencing against dogs. Ground nesting birds such as woodcock seen on site. Signage needed to protect and keep dogs out of area. 

Rob: Bacons College 4G AstroTurf granules are being leaf blown into Russia Dock woodland plastic pollution. MDF board to prevent this happening.

Social outreach for FORDW meetings to increase numbers. 

John T: Meeting in spring/January decided by group. Walking the green handing out flyers and talking to people.

Social media, what’s app. Twitter/Instagram. Mail chimp, Website 

Meeting end. 20:16 
 






